Today's video contains images of a preserved
dead body.
If that's not for you: time to pick another
video.
This is a dead man. Or most of a dead man.
This is the skeleton of philosopher Jeremy
Bentham, who died in 1832,
preserved, stuffed, dressed in his own clothes,
all as requested in his will,
and put on display at University College London.
And it is a little bit creepy.
NICK BOOTH: He's bolted to his chair, and
he's wearing a conservation-grade nodysuit
held together with copper wire and hinged
in his joints, so in theory he could move
in a realistic manner. We don't do that any
more, because he's very delicate.
There's a few theories as to why. He didn't
like the church, he was an atheist, and at
the time you had to pay money to be buried,
as you still do now, and one of the theories
is that he just didn't want to give money
to the church. Also, he did have a bit of
a sense of humour. He maybe wanted to get
some more use out of his body rather than
just be buried in the ground.
TIM CAUSER: Jeremy Bentham is most famous
for being the founder of modern utilitarianism.
That is, the idea that all action and legislation
should be for the promotion of the greatest
happiness. The famous quotation is "the greatest
happiness for the greatest number".
Bentham tried to write about 12 pages a day.
He tried to keep in that rhythm. And occasionally,
when we're looking through his papers, we'll
come across a sheet dated 25th December and
think, you know, Jeremy, just have a break(!)
Transcribe Bentham is a crowdsourced transcription
initiative. The transcripts of the manuscripts
that they're producing, we'll use as a starting
point for producing volumes of Bentham's collected
works, which is the main purpose of the Bentham
Project here at UCL.
One of the major things in his life was an
attempt to reform the law. He studied law,
he began to practice law -- his first case,
he realised his client would actually pay
him more than he would get in compensation,
for Bentham representing him. So Bentham,
at this point, threw up the law and decided
that he would instead dedicate the rest of
his life to reforming it.
TOM SCOTT: The actual head that came up with
most of those thoughts, though? That's not
it. That is a wax model.
The actual head didn't get preserved really
all that well, so it's kept in a sealed box
somewhere else.
It was kept in a sealed box just here, but
then some students from a rival university
stole it and held it for ransom.
NICK BOOTH: It was stored in his chest cavity
for a while, and then it was discovered there
in 1898, during the first proper inspection
of him.
Then it was taken out and for a while it was
kept in a box, we think, just on the ledge
on the doorway to my left, and now it's in
one of the safes here at UCL.
TIM CAUSER: The thing that Bentham is most
famous for is the Panopticon prison scheme.
The basic design of the Panopticon prison
was that it was meant to be a circular prison,
with the cells arranged around the outside
and a central inspection tower in the middle
of the prison. And from there, the prison
inspector, through an elaborate network of
curtains and lights, would be able to look
into any of the cells at any point and see
the prisoners without himself being seen.
So he expected that prisoners would, in trying
to avoid any punishment that would come by
violating the Panopticon's rules and regulations,
the prisoners would modify their behaviour
and eventually be released as working, decent
members of the public again.
It became increasingly clear that the British
government, rather than building a penitentiary,
would rather pack off prisoners to Australia,
as it was a lot cheaper.
TOM SCOTT: And if you think it'd be a brilliant
prank to write in your will that your should
be preserved, stuffed, and donated to someone
you loved, or hated: don't get too excited.
Your rights end when you die. So the final
say on what happens to your corpse goes to
your family and friends. And while it is perfect
legal, in the UK, to preserve and display
a body -- if you want that to happen, you'll
need to find someone as strange as the man
who preserved Jeremy Bentham.
[Translating this video? Add your name here!]